# cichlid_transcriptome
Parental care in Astatotilapia burtoni entails females protecting eggs and developing fry in specialized buccal sacs in the mouth. During this mouthbrooding behavior, which can last 2-3 weeks, mothers undergo voluntary fasting accompanied by loss of body mass and major metabolic changes. Following release of fry, females resume normal feeding behavior and quickly recover body mass as they become reproductively active once again. In this set of studies, we sequenced A. burtoni whole-brain transcriptomes from both lab stock and mixed wild stock females at different timepoints throughout the reproductive cycle in order to discover candidate genes linked to these evolved mouthbrooding and fasting behaviors. The four time-points sampled throughout their reproductive cycle include 2 days after the start of mouthbrooding, 14 days after the start of mouthbrooding, 2 days after the release of fry, and 14 days after the release of fry. In parallel studies, the two stocks were analyzed independently and together for comparative analysis. 

This directory is incomplete, and at this point includes the R code and supplementary material from the analysis of lab stock and the associated MS (in review), "Transcriptomic changes associated with maternal care in the brain of mouthbrooding cichlid Astatotilapia burtoni reflect adaptation to self-induced metabolic and hypoxic stress". The directory will be updated once the MS on comparative analysis between stocks is submitted. 
